Some people believe that it is better for children to grow up in the countryside, while others think that growing up in a city is more beneficial. Discuss both views and give your opinion.

With the development of the economy, children's educational questions are creeping into people's horizons. Some opine that the rural environment is better for children's growth. However, others suggest urban children have more benefits, I am in accord with this point as well, and I will elucidate my views in forthcoming paragraphs and give some relevant exemplifications. Please note that all of my opinions are based on the phenomena in my country.

To begin with, speaking of the advantages of rural children first. Admittedly, children who live in the countryside have more opportunities to embrace the diversity of nature, and acquire more valuable skills and knowledge about nature than urban children. In addition, rural children tend to be more independent, because they usually stay with their grandparents as their parents need to work in the city, at least in my country. Therefore, rural children will easily fit life alone as they have acquired some practical skills from living in the countryside.

However, even though there are several advantages of living in the rural, it is not enough to convince an urban child to live in the rural. First and foremost, education is one of the most important factors for today's kids, while the educational resources shortage in rural areas can cover all the advantages of it. To explicate, lacking of educational resources means rare students could complete their degrees. However, unfortunately, in this ever-changing world, most large companies have academic prejudice. Thus, rural children need to cope with harder employment than urban children as they have plenty of resources. Secondly, instead of children living with their parents, living with grandparents can not give good upbringings to children as the gulf of two generations. Thereby, children can enjoy more benefits if they're growing up as city dwellers.

Overall, I align myself with the point that it is better for children to grow up in the city, because they can enjoy plenty of social resources, and grow up vigorously with their parents.