***University students should take basic science courses regardless of their fields of study.***

***To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?***

### Original:

Overall, I don't agree with this outlook. I think the university students shouldn't regard their basic science courses as the major part of their study, even though the basic theory is important for any field, but being a university student, know-how is imperative for a student who will engage his own field soon.

First of all, is basic science neccessary for a student? Well, In my opinion, which base on my employment expericence, I guess most of the recruiter want rather an employee who had some empirical know-how knowledges than who had strong basic science theories without any working experiences. Because the most of the vacancies of the job don't need to use any basic science knowledge, high level professional engagement excepted, such as scientist, physicist, etc. 

On the other hand, I don't think it's possible that all of the university students could learn basic science well, because rather the study of their own field, the basic science is comparably dull and boring for most of them. Moreover,   It's not be easier for find a job even though a student who dedicate more effort and learned basic science well, that's unfair. So most of the students wouldn't devote time for the basic science.

That said, In summary, if you don't want to be a scientist or a physicist, the basic science knowledge is not vital for your job. So, dedicate more interest in your own niche.



