***It is often said that retirement is <u>the happiest time</u> of a person's life.***

***To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?***

In general, I completely disagree with this opinion, thereby I think there are lots of merry events in one's life, such as marry with your partern that you loved, get a promotion in your job, or just a little success in your work or study. 

<u>First of all, I'd agree that the retirement is actually a one of the happiest events in one's life, which means you could finally relief all pressures and nervous from you job, and then start a new episode of your life, the life what you aspired and your efforts in your job are all for this day's advent. The life without working stress and you could arrange your time to do anything what you want, that's sounds great and a certainly happy time for us.</u>

E:

In fact, I'd agree that retirement is certainly one of the happiest events in one's life, at least for some people, which means they could finally relieve all pressures and anxieties from their job and then start a new episode of their life, wherein they could free arrange their own time to do anything that they want without restrictions of the boss.

But Iike I said, the extent of how happy you felt, bases on one's perception. For example by my own, I'm a programmer who engaged in software-engerneer for 4 years, I was a geek since I was I child, and love programming and do something that I never did. So maybe I won't feel happy but nervous when one day I'm going to retire, which means I have to leave the field that I loved. Therefore, the retirement is not the happiest time of my life.

Overall, in my outlook, how extent does happy is depends on every individual's perception.  Anyone had right to judge which thing is happy or dispress to themselves, and had their own standard.

