# Test1

## S2

Hello, and thank you for asking me to your teacher's meeting to talk about the dinosaurs museum <u>an~~d~~ to</u> tell you about what you can do with you~~r~~ students there.

Well, let me give you so<u>me of</u> ~~the~~ basic information first. In regard to opening hours, we're open every day of the week, from 9 a.m to 8 p.m excep<u>t on</u> Mondays when we close a~~t~~ 1.30 p.m. And in fact, the only day in the year when we close is on the 15 of December. You can book the guided tour for your school group anytime that we're open.

If you bring your school group to the museum, when you arrive we ask you to remain with your group in the car park, one or more of our tour guys will welcome you there and brief you about wha<u>t the</u> tour will be about. We do this there because our entrance is quite small and we really haven't got much room for briefing groups in the exhibition area. As far as the amount of time you'll need goes, if you bring the school groups, you should pla<u>n on</u> allowing a minimum of 90 minutes for the visit. This allows 15 minutes to <u>get on and off</u> the coach. 45 minutes for the guided tour, and 30 minutes for the after-tour activities. If you going to have lunch a<u>t the</u> museum, you'l<u>l o</u>f course have to allow more time. There're 2 cafes in the museum, with seating for 80 people. If you want to eat there, you'll need to reserve some seating, as they can get quite crowded at lunchtime. And outside the museum a<u>t the</u> back, there're tables, and students can bring their own lunch and ea<u>t i</u>~~t~~ there in the ope<u>n a</u>ir.

When the students come into the museum foyer we ask them to chec<u>k in</u> their backpacks with their books, lunch boxe<u>s, e</u>tcete<u>ra, a</u>t the cloakroom, before they enter the museum proper. **And afraid in the past we have had a few things gone missing after school visits, so this is the strict rule.** Also, some of the exhibits are be fragile, and we don't wan~~t~~ ~~th~~em to be accidentally knocked. But we do provide school students with handouts with questions and quizzes on them. The so much th~~at~~ students can learn in the museum, and it's fun for them to had something to do. Of course, they need to bring something to write with for these. We do allow students to take photographs, for students <u>who are</u> doing projects, it's useful to make some kind of visual record of what they see. They can add to their reports. And, finally, they should not bring anything to eat into the museum, or drinks of any kind. There're also a few things the students can do after the tour. In the theater on the ground floor. There're continuous screenings of short documentaries about dinosaurs which they can see at any time.

